README.md, before:

# Cortex

A production-ready AI-powered e‑commerce operations and growth assistant. The application provides a conversational interface and financial insights, with clean Markdown rendering for readable outputs.

- Official URL: https://cortex-projects.vercel.app
- Frontend: Next.js (App Router) in `Cortex/`
- Backend: Flask in `openai_purelybackend/`
- Deployments: Vercel (frontend), Render (backend)

## Architecture

- Frontend
  - Framework: Next.js
  - Server routes proxy to the backend using `process.env.BACKEND_BASE_URL`
  - Key routes:
    - Chat API: `Cortex/src/app/ai/chatbot/route.ts`
    - Generic proxy: `Cortex/src/app/api/[...path]/route.ts`
  - Markdown rendering via `react-markdown` and `remark-gfm` in UI pages

- Backend
  - Framework: Flask
  - Health endpoint: `GET /api/health`
  - Chat handler: `POST /ai/chatbot`
  - Production served with `gunicorn` on Render

- Configuration
  - Frontend env: `BACKEND_BASE_URL`
  - Backend env: `GEMINI_API_KEY` (managed as a Render Secret), `PORT`, `HOST`, `FLASK_DEBUG`

## Features

- Conversational assistant with Markdown-formatted responses
- Financial insights page with Markdown formatting
- Environment-driven proxy between frontend and backend
- Health checks and production server configuration

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm
- Python 3.10+
- pip

### Backend (local)

```bash
cd openai_purelybackend
pip install -r requirements.txt
# Run in development
PORT=5001 HOST=0.0.0.0 FLASK_DEBUG=True python3 app.py
# Or run via gunicorn
# gunicorn app:app --workers 1 --threads 8 --timeout 90
```

- Verify health:

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:5001/api/health
```

### Frontend (local)

```bash
cd Cortex
npm install
# Configure backend URL for local proxy
printf "BACKEND_BASE_URL=http://127.0.0.1:5001\n" > .env.local
npm run dev
```

- Open `http://localhost:3000`
- Test chat route:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/ai/chatbot \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"message":"Hello"}'
```

## Deployment

### Backend (Render)

- Blueprint file: `render.yaml` (root)
- Recommended: create the service via the Render Dashboard
  - New → Blueprint → connect repository
  - Ensure service config:
    - Type: Web, Env: `python`
    - Root: `openai_purelybackend`
    - Build: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
    - Start: `gunicorn app:app --workers 1 --threads 8 --timeout 90`
    - Health Check Path: `/api/health`
    - Secrets: add `gemini_api_key` → `GEMINI_API_KEY`

- CLI management (after service exists):

```bash
# Install the official Render CLI (v2+)
brew tap render-oss/render && brew install render
# Set workspace interactively
render workspace set
# List services
render services list --output json
# Trigger a deploy
render deploys create --service <service-id> --output text
```

### Frontend (Vercel)

- Production env configured in `Cortex/vercel.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "BACKEND_BASE_URL": "https://cortex-v2ee.onrender.com"
  }
}
```

- Deploy via CLI:

```bash
cd Cortex
vercel --prod --yes
```

- Alias the deployment to the official URL:

```bash
vercel alias set <deployment>.vercel.app cortex-projects.vercel.app
```

## Environment Variables

- Frontend
  - `BACKEND_BASE_URL`: Base URL for backend API (example: `https://cortex-v2ee.onrender.com`)

- Backend
  - `GEMINI_API_KEY`: API key for model integration (set as a Render Secret)
  - `PORT`: Server port (example: `5001`)
  - `HOST`: Bind address (example: `0.0.0.0`)
  - `FLASK_DEBUG`: `True` or `False`

## Project Structure

```
CORTEX/
├─ Cortex/                   # Next.js frontend
│  ├─ src/app/               # App Router pages and routes
│  ├─ next.config.ts         # Next.js configuration
│  ├─ vercel.json            # Vercel environment configuration
│  └─ .env.local             # Local env (not committed)
├─ openai_purelybackend/     # Flask backend
│  ├─ app.py                 # Flask app entry
│  └─ requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├─ render.yaml               # Render blueprint for backend service
└─ README.md                 # Project documentation
```

## Troubleshooting

- Vercel build error `ENOENT: ... .next/routes-manifest.json`
  - Cause: customized `outputFileTracingRoot` breaks Next.js path resolution on Vercel
  - Fix: remove `outputFileTracingRoot` from `Cortex/next.config.ts`

- "Error contacting AI backend" in frontend
  - Ensure `Cortex/.env.local` has `BACKEND_BASE_URL` set to the correct backend URL
  - Restart the dev server after changing envs

- Port conflicts on local
  - Use `PORT=5001` for backend and configure the frontend to match

## Security

- Do not commit secrets; use Render Secrets for `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- Keep `.env.local` untracked in Git (already configured in `.gitignore`)

## License

This project’s license is not set. Add a license file if needed.

Commit message:

chore: add MIT license and expand README topics/features

README.md, after:

# Cortex

A production-ready AI-powered e‑commerce operations and growth assistant. The application provides a conversational interface and financial insights, with clean Markdown rendering for readable outputs.

- Official URL: https://cortex-projects.vercel.app
- Frontend: Next.js (App Router) in `Cortex/`
- Backend: Flask in `openai_purelybackend/`
- Deployments: Vercel (frontend), Render (backend)

## Topics

- An AI-powered e-commerce hub that integrates with any e-commerce backend
- Automates end-to-end business operations and surfaces insights in a dashboard
- Prototype designed to plug into existing store backends using HTTP APIs and webhooks
- Uses LLMs for assistant and insights; API-key based model provider integration

### Feature Overview

- Sales Management
- Financial Management
- CA work and ITR filing support
- Help in tax deduction
- Automated inventory management with email triggers
- Customer management
- Competitor analysis via web scraping
- E-commerce store/website growth analysis
- Financial and compliance automation
- Website health trigger
- Complete About Us section
- Day-wise overview on the homepage
- Automated invoice generation
- GenAI chatbot to assist the owner
- All features reflected in an integrated dashboard

## Architecture

- Frontend
  - Framework: Next.js
  - Server routes proxy to the backend using `process.env.BACKEND_BASE_URL`
  - Key routes:
    - Chat API: `Cortex/src/app/ai/chatbot/route.ts`
    - Generic proxy: `Cortex/src/app/api/[...path]/route.ts`
  - Markdown rendering via `react-markdown` and `remark-gfm` in UI pages

- Backend
  - Framework: Flask
  - Health endpoint: `GET /api/health`
  - Chat handler: `POST /ai/chatbot`
  - Production served with `gunicorn` on Render

- Configuration
  - Frontend env: `BACKEND_BASE_URL`
  - Backend env: `GEMINI_API_KEY` (managed as a Render Secret), `PORT`, `HOST`, `FLASK_DEBUG`

## Features

- Conversational assistant with Markdown-formatted responses
- Financial insights page with Markdown formatting
- Environment-driven proxy between frontend and backend
- Health checks and production server configuration

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm
- Python 3.10+
- pip

### Backend (local)

```bash
cd openai_purelybackend
pip install -r requirements.txt
# Run in development
PORT=5001 HOST=0.0.0.0 FLASK_DEBUG=True python3 app.py
# Or run via gunicorn
# gunicorn app:app --workers 1 --threads 8 --timeout 90
```

- Verify health:

```bash
curl http://127.0.0.1:5001/api/health
```

### Frontend (local)

```bash
cd Cortex
npm install
# Configure backend URL for local proxy
printf "BACKEND_BASE_URL=http://127.0.0.1:5001\n" > .env.local
npm run dev
```

- Open `http://localhost:3000`
- Test chat route:

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/ai/chatbot \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"message":"Hello"}'
```

## Deployment

### Backend (Render)

- Blueprint file: `render.yaml` (root)
- Recommended: create the service via the Render Dashboard
  - New → Blueprint → connect repository
  - Ensure service config:
    - Type: Web, Env: `python`
    - Root: `openai_purelybackend`
    - Build: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
    - Start: `gunicorn app:app --workers 1 --threads 8 --timeout 90`
    - Health Check Path: `/api/health`
    - Secrets: add `gemini_api_key` → `GEMINI_API_KEY`

- CLI management (after service exists):

```bash
# Install the official Render CLI (v2+)
brew tap render-oss/render && brew install render
# Set workspace interactively
render workspace set
# List services
render services list --output json
# Trigger a deploy
render deploys create --service <service-id> --output text
```

### Frontend (Vercel)

- Production env configured in `Cortex/vercel.json`:

```json
{
  "env": {
    "BACKEND_BASE_URL": "https://cortex-v2ee.onrender.com"
  }
}
```

- Deploy via CLI:

```bash
cd Cortex
vercel --prod --yes
```

- Alias the deployment to the official URL:

```bash
vercel alias set <deployment>.vercel.app cortex-projects.vercel.app
```

## Model Provider

- The backend is prepared to integrate with API-key based model providers. The recommended path is to use OpenAI models with the official API. Add your keys as environment variables and wire model calls inside backend handlers (for example, in `app.py`).

## Environment Variables

- Frontend
  - `BACKEND_BASE_URL`: Base URL for backend API (example: `https://cortex-v2ee.onrender.com`)

- Backend
  - `GEMINI_API_KEY`: API key for model integration (set as a Render Secret)
  - `PORT`: Server port (example: `5001`)
  - `HOST`: Bind address (example: `0.0.0.0`)
  - `FLASK_DEBUG`: `True` or `False`

## Project Structure

```
CORTEX/
├─ Cortex/                   # Next.js frontend
│  ├─ src/app/               # App Router pages and routes
│  ├─ next.config.ts         # Next.js configuration
│  ├─ vercel.json            # Vercel environment configuration
│  └─ .env.local             # Local env (not committed)
├─ openai_purelybackend/     # Flask backend
│  ├─ app.py                 # Flask app entry
│  └─ requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├─ render.yaml               # Render blueprint for backend service
└─ README.md                 # Project documentation
```

## Troubleshooting

- Vercel build error `ENOENT: ... .next/routes-manifest.json`
  - Cause: customized `outputFileTracingRoot` breaks Next.js path resolution on Vercel
  - Fix: remove `outputFileTracingRoot` from `Cortex/next.config.ts`

- "Error contacting AI backend" in frontend
  - Ensure `Cortex/.env.local` has `BACKEND_BASE_URL` set to the correct backend URL
  - Restart the dev server after changing envs

- Port conflicts on local
  - Use `PORT=5001` for backend and configure the frontend to match

## Security

- Do not commit secrets; use Render Secrets for `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- Keep `.env.local` untracked in Git (already configured in `.gitignore`)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for details.
